C# language reference for records (#23009)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/language-reference/builtin-types/record.md

---
title: "Records - C# reference"
description: Learn about the record type in C#
ms.date: 02/25/2021
f1_keywords: 
  - "record_CSharpKeyword"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "record keyword [C#]"
  - "record type [C#]"
---
# Records (C# reference)

Beginning with C# 9, you use the `record` keyword to define a [reference type](reference-types.md) that provides built-in functionality for encapsulating data. You can create record types with immutable properties by using positional parameters or standard property syntax:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/RecordType.cs" id="PositionalRecord":::
:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/RecordType.cs" id="ImmutableRecord":::

You can also create record types with mutable properties and fields:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/RecordType.cs" id="MutableRecord":::

> While records can be mutable, they are primarily intended for supporting immutable data models. The record type offers the following features:

Author: That statement was adapted from "While records can be mutable, they are primarily built for better supporting immutable data models." in [Mads' blog]((https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/c-9-0-on-the-record/#records). 😄

> While records can be mutable, they are primarily intended for supporting immutable data models. The record type offers the following features:

Reviewer: Well then, let's just :shipit:

* [Concise syntax for creating a reference type with immutable properties](#positional-syntax-for-property-definition)
* Built-in behavior useful for a data-centric reference type:
  * [Value equality](#value-equality)

>   * [Concise syntax for nondestructive mutation](#nondestructive-mutation)

Author: I found that it works with non-positional records.  For example, the following code works as expected:

```
            public record Point
            {
                public int X { get; init; }
                public int Y { get; init; }
                public int Zbase { get; init; }
            };
            public record NamedPoint : Point
            {
                public string Name { get; init; }
                public int Zderived { get; set; }
            };

            public static void Main()
            {
                Point p1 = new NamedPoint{ Name ="A", X = 1, Y = 2, Zbase = 3, Zderived = 4 };

                Point p2 = p1 with { X = 5, Y = 6, Zbase = 7 }; // Can't set Name or Zderived
                Console.WriteLine(p2 is NamedPoint);  // output: True
                Console.WriteLine(p2);
                // output: NamedPoint { X = 5, Y = 6, Zbase = 7, Name = A, Zderived = 4 }

                Point p3 = (NamedPoint)p1 with { Name = "B", X = 5, Y = 6, Zbase = 7, Zderived = 8 };
                Console.WriteLine(p3);
                // output: NamedPoint { X = 5, Y = 6, Zbase = 7, Name = B, Zderived = 8 }
            }
```

>   * [Concise syntax for nondestructive mutation](#nondestructive-mutation)

Reviewer: That is cool. I was going from memory, and happy to be wrong.

Init-only properties, whether created from positional parameters or by specifying `init` accessors, have *shallow immutability*. After initialization, you can't change the value of value-type properties or the reference of reference-type properties. However, the data that a reference-type property refers to can be changed. The following example shows that the content of a reference-type immutable property (an array in this case) is mutable:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/RecordType.cs" id="ShallowImmutability":::

The features unique to record types are implemented by compiler-synthesized methods, and none of these methods compromises immutability by modifying object state.

## Value equality

Value equality means that two variables of a record type are equal if the types match and all property and field values match. For other reference types, equality means identity. That is, two variables of a reference type are equal if they refer to the same object. The following example illustrates value equality of record types:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/RecordType.cs" id="Equality":::

> To implement value equality, the compiler synthesizes the following methods:

Author: Do you mean `IEquatable<T>`?

> To implement value equality, the compiler synthesizes the following methods:

Reviewer: yes.

> To implement value equality, the compiler synthesizes the following methods:

Author: I have that below as an explanatory comment to the `* A virtual Equals method whose parameter is the record type.` bullet point -- should it be a separate bullet point?

> To implement value equality, the compiler synthesizes the following methods:

Reviewer: good point. They are related. Maybe combine them into one bullet point? I think the interface should be mentioned, which introduces the second `Equals` method.

### `with` expressions in derived records

Because the synthesized clone method uses a [covariant return type](~/_csharplang/proposals/csharp-9.0/covariant-returns.md), the result of a `with` expression has the same run-time type as the expression's operand. All properties of the run-time type get copied, but you can only set properties of the compile-time type, as the following example shows:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/RecordType.cs" id="WithExpressionInheritance":::

### `PrintMembers` formatting in derived records

the synthesized `PrintMembers` method of a derived record type calls the base implementation. The result is that all public properties and fields of both derived and base types are included in the `ToString` output, as shown in the following example:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/RecordType.cs" id="ToStringInheritance":::

You can provide your own implementation of the `PrintMembers` method. If you do that, use the following signature:

> * For a `sealed` record: `private bool PrintMembers(StringBuilder builder)`;

Reviewer: This needs to be clarified a bit:

```suggestion
* For a `sealed` record that derives from `object`: `private bool PrintMembers(StringBuilder builder)`;
```

IIRC, a sealed record that derives from another record would have the signature `protected sealed override bool PrintMembers(StringBuilder builder);`

* For a record that isn't `sealed` and derives from object (doesn't declare a base record): `protected virtual bool PrintMembers(StringBuilder builder);`
* For a record that isn't `sealed` and derives from another record: `protected override bool PrintMembers(StringBuilder builder);`

Here is an example of code that replaces the synthesized `PrintMembers` methods, one for a record type that derives from object, and one for a record type that derives from another record:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/RecordType.cs" id="PrintMembersImplementation":::

### Deconstructor behavior in derived records

> The `Deconstructor` method of a derived record returns the values of all positional properties of the compile-time type. If the variable type is a base record, only the base record properties are deconstructed unless the object is cast to the derived type. The following example demonstrates calling a deconstructor on a derived record.

Reviewer: nit on the name:

```suggestion
The `Deconstruct` method of a derived record returns the values of all positional properties of the compile-time type. If the variable type is a base record, only the base record properties are deconstructed unless the object is cast to the derived type. The following example demonstrates calling a deconstructor on a derived record.
```

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/RecordType.cs" id="WithExpressionInheritance":::

### `PrintMembers` formatting in derived records

the synthesized `PrintMembers` method of a derived record type calls the base implementation. The result is that all public properties and fields of both derived and base types are included in the `ToString` output, as shown in the following example:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/RecordType.cs" id="ToStringInheritance":::

You can provide your own implementation of the `PrintMembers` method. If you do that, use the following signature:

* For a `sealed` record that derives from `object` (doesn't declare a base record): `private bool PrintMembers(StringBuilder builder)`;
* For a `sealed` record that derives from another record: `protected sealed override bool PrintMembers(StringBuilder builder)`;

> * For a record that isn't `sealed` and derives from object (doesn't declare a base record): `protected virtual bool PrintMembers(StringBuilder builder);`

Author: ```suggestion
* For a record that isn't `sealed` and derives from object: `protected virtual bool PrintMembers(StringBuilder builder);`
```

---
title: "Records - C# reference"
description: Learn about the record type in C#
ms.date: 02/25/2021
f1_keywords: 
  - "record_CSharpKeyword"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "record keyword [C#]"
  - "record type [C#]"
---
# Records (C# reference)

Beginning with C# 9, you use the `record` keyword to define a [reference type](reference-types.md) that provides built-in functionality for encapsulating data. You can create record types with immutable properties by using positional parameters or standard property syntax:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/RecordType.cs" id="PositionalRecord":::
:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/RecordType.cs" id="ImmutableRecord":::

You can also create record types with mutable properties and fields:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/RecordType.cs" id="MutableRecord":::

> Positional records create immutable data models. You can add additional properties that are mutable to positional records. You can control the mutability of any property in non-positional record types.
> 
>  The record type offers the following features:

Author: ```suggestion
While records can be mutable, they are primarily intended for supporting immutable data models. The record type offers the following features:
```

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/RecordType.cs" id="ShallowImmutability":::

The features unique to record types are implemented by compiler-synthesized methods, and none of these methods compromises immutability by modifying object state.

## Value equality

Value equality means that two variables of a record type are equal if the types match and all property and field values match. For other reference types, equality means identity. That is, two variables of a reference type are equal if they refer to the same object. The following example illustrates value equality of record types:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/RecordType.cs" id="Equality":::

To implement value equality, the compiler synthesizes the following methods:

* An override of <xref:System.Object.Equals(System.Object)?displayProperty=nameWithType>.

  This method is used as the basis for the <xref:System.Object.Equals(System.Object,System.Object)?displayProperty=nameWithType> static method when both parameters are non-null.

* A virtual `Equals` method whose parameter is the record type.

>   The record type implements <xref:System.IEquatable%601>

Author: ```suggestion
  The record type implements <xref:System.IEquatable%601> where `T` is the record type.
```

When comparing two instances of a derived type, the synthesized equality methods check all properties of the base and derived types for equality. The synthesized `GetHashCode` method uses the `GetHashCode` method from all properties and fields declared in the base type and the derived record type.

### `with` expressions in derived records

Because the synthesized clone method uses a [covariant return type](~/_csharplang/proposals/csharp-9.0/covariant-returns.md), the result of a `with` expression has the same run-time type as the expression's operand. All properties of the run-time type get copied, but you can only set properties of the compile-time type, as the following example shows:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/RecordType.cs" id="WithExpressionInheritance":::

### `PrintMembers` formatting in derived records

> the synthesized `PrintMembers` method of a derived record type calls the base implementation. The result is that all public properties and fields of both derived and base types are included in the `ToString` output, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The synthesized `PrintMembers` method of a derived record type calls the base implementation. The result is that all public properties and fields of both derived and base types are included in the `ToString` output, as shown in the following example:
```

Author: Thanks @pkulikov
